book/about.md, before:

---
title: About
---
# About Democracy 2.0

![visits](https://visit-counter.vercel.app/counter.png?page=https%3A%2F%2Fselwynpolit.github.io%2Fdemo2%2Fabout&s=16&c=030303&bg=00000000&no=5&ff=electrolize&tb=&ta=+Views)


Democracy 2.0 is a collaborative website that reimagines US democracy through transparency, community participation, and innovative digital tools which empower citizens to actively shape governance. It was developed as part of a creative effort to resist oppressive policies of the current administration by fostering grassroots innovation and collective action for a more inclusive and accountable political future. Beyond reacting to current challenges, the site serves as a forward-looking plan for progressives, outlining clear goals and strategies to build a stronger, more equitable democracy that inspires sustained progress and meaningful reform.

## Welcome to Democracy 2.0

**Democracy 2.0** is a framework for governance where every human being is empowered and every voice matters. A truly modern democracy must stand firmly on the pillars of **universal human rights**, ensuring that the dignity, freedom, and equality of every individual are not only respected but are inalienable.

**Democracy 2.0** is built on **direct citizen involvement**. By leveraging cutting-edge, transparent digital platforms, you get the power to participate in real decision-making, influence policy through open source lawmaking processes, and track the direct impact of your contributions. Every idea, comment, or suggestion is a building block in our ever-evolving democratic landscape.

Transparency is at the heart of Democracy 2.0. We use [open source technologies](open_source.md) to create a governance system that is clear and accountable from top to bottom. Every decision, every policy draft, and every amendment proposal is made visible and accessible, ensuring that no action is hidden from public scrutiny.

Finally, by embracing open source methods, we tap into the collective genius of communities, developers, legal experts, and everyday citizens. Our collaborative platforms harness the power of shared ideas to continuously improve, adapt, and secure our democratic institutions for the future.

Lets redefine democracy where every individual has a say, every contribution counts, and the future is built together.

Jump right to the [overview](overview.md) of the project or [get involved](get_involved.md) in shaping the future of governance.


## Origin
The origin of this project comes from a [chat session you can view with Microsoft Copilot](guts.md) beginning on Saturday, April 19, 2025.  These were my prompts and the first responses:


>Q. Do you have access to project 2025 from the heritage foundation?

>A. I can certainly discuss Project 2025 and its ideas. It's a policy initiative led by The Heritage Foundation aimed at shaping governance strategies for a future presidential administration. If you're looking for specific details from the actual document, I can try to summarize key points or direct you to sources where you can read more. Let me know how you'd like to proceed!

>Q. I want to design a project 2028 that actually is the blueprint for a democracy 2.0 that actually works for people instead of the oppressive destructive policies laid out in project 2025

>A. That’s a bold and inspiring vision, Selwyn. A "Democracy 2.0" could be a game-changer if it truly prioritizes equity, sustainability, and the well-being of all citizens. To start shaping Project 2028, we could focus on areas like:

>1. **Transparent Governance**: Policies that ensure accountability and reduce corruption, like open data initiatives and citizen oversight committees.
>2. **Economic Justice**: Strategies to reduce wealth inequality, such as progressive taxation and universal basic income experiments.
>3. **Environmental Stewardship**: A framework for tackling climate change and promoting renewable energy.
>4. **Inclusive Representation**: Ensuring marginalized voices are heard through proportional representation or participatory budgeting.
>5. **Digital Democracy**: Leveraging technology for secure online voting and public consultations.






Check out a [flyer](flyer1.md) for the project.
Check out the [summary](summary.md) of the project.

Commit message:

Update about.md - add embedded video

book/about.md, after:

---
title: About
---
# About Democracy 2.0

![visits](https://visit-counter.vercel.app/counter.png?page=https%3A%2F%2Fselwynpolit.github.io%2Fdemo2%2Fabout&s=16&c=030303&bg=00000000&no=5&ff=electrolize&tb=&ta=+Views)


Democracy 2.0 is a collaborative website that reimagines US democracy through transparency, community participation, and innovative digital tools which empower citizens to actively shape governance. It was developed as part of a creative effort to resist oppressive policies of the current administration by fostering grassroots innovation and collective action for a more inclusive and accountable political future. Beyond reacting to current challenges, the site serves as a forward-looking plan for progressives, outlining clear goals and strategies to build a stronger, more equitable democracy that inspires sustained progress and meaningful reform.

## Welcome

**Democracy 2.0** is a framework for governance where every human being is empowered and every voice matters. A truly modern democracy must stand firmly on the pillars of **universal human rights**, ensuring that the dignity, freedom, and equality of every individual are not only respected but are inalienable.

**Democracy 2.0** is built on **direct citizen involvement**. By leveraging cutting-edge, transparent digital platforms, you get the power to participate in real decision-making, influence policy through open source lawmaking processes, and track the direct impact of your contributions. Every idea, comment, or suggestion is a building block in our ever-evolving democratic landscape.

**Transparency** is at the heart of Democracy 2.0. We use [open source technologies](open_source.md) to create a governance system that is clear and accountable from top to bottom. Every decision, every policy draft, and every amendment proposal is made visible and accessible, ensuring that no action is hidden from public scrutiny.

By embracing **open source methods**, we tap into the collective genius of communities, developers, legal experts, and everyday citizens. Our collaborative platforms harness the power of shared ideas to continuously improve, adapt, and secure our democratic institutions for the future.

## Get Involved
Print out the [Democracy 2.0 flyer](flyer1.md) and share it with your friends, family, and community. Help spread the word about this project and its vision for a better democracy.

Also we have a [Summary](summary.md) of the project that you can share with others to help them understand the key concepts and goals of Democracy 2.0.




## Where to from here?

Jump right to the [overview](overview.md) of the project or [get involved](get_involved.md) in shaping the future of governance.



## Size of Government
Size of government is important. For a perspective, check out [Ezra Klein](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ezra_Klein) being interviewed by [Lex Fridman](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lex_Fridman) on the topic of government size and its impact on society.


<div class="video-container">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/pWd61FEMMIY?si=aQyRzlAwcvM-SUv8" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>



## Origin
The origin of this project comes from a [chat session you can view with Microsoft Copilot](guts.md) beginning on Saturday, April 19, 2025.  These were my prompts and the first responses:


>Q. Do you have access to project 2025 from the heritage foundation?

>A. I can certainly discuss Project 2025 and its ideas. It's a policy initiative led by The Heritage Foundation aimed at shaping governance strategies for a future presidential administration. If you're looking for specific details from the actual document, I can try to summarize key points or direct you to sources where you can read more. Let me know how you'd like to proceed!

>Q. I want to design a project 2028 that actually is the blueprint for a democracy 2.0 that actually works for people instead of the oppressive destructive policies laid out in project 2025

>A. That’s a bold and inspiring vision, Selwyn. A "Democracy 2.0" could be a game-changer if it truly prioritizes equity, sustainability, and the well-being of all citizens. To start shaping Project 2028, we could focus on areas like:

>1. **Transparent Governance**: Policies that ensure accountability and reduce corruption, like open data initiatives and citizen oversight committees.
>2. **Economic Justice**: Strategies to reduce wealth inequality, such as progressive taxation and universal basic income experiments.
>3. **Environmental Stewardship**: A framework for tackling climate change and promoting renewable energy.
>4. **Inclusive Representation**: Ensuring marginalized voices are heard through proportional representation or participatory budgeting.
>5. **Digital Democracy**: Leveraging technology for secure online voting and public consultations.
